working-with-tents/understanding-tent-editor.mdx, before:

---
title: "Understanding the Tent Editor"
description: "Navigate and use the tent editor interface effectively"
---

## Tent Editor Overview

The tent editor is your workspace for creating, editing, and refining your AI-generated landing pages. It combines a chat interface for natural language editing with a live preview and code view.

  ![A screenshot of the tent editor with the chat interface on the left and a new tent preview on the right.](../images/initial-prompt-response.png)

## Interface Layout

### Left Panel: Chat Interface

The chat interface is your primary tool for generating tents:

**Input Area:**
- Text input for natural language commands
- Image upload for visual references
- File upload for downloadable assets like PDFs
- Send button to submit requests
- Generating indicator during AI processing

**Chat History:**
- All previous conversations and edits
- Timestamps for each interaction
- Ability to reference previous changes

### Right Panel: Live Preview

**Real-time Updates:**
- See changes instantly as you make them
- Responsive preview for mobile devices
- Interactive elements work in preview

### Code View (Optional)

1. Click the **code icon** to open code mode
2. **Edit** the code directly
3. The tent updates in real time
4. Click the **code icon** again to return to Chat mode

**Code Features:**
- Syntax highlighting
- Direct editing capabilities

  ![A screenshot of the code view with the code icon highlighted.](../images/code-mode.png)

## Chat-Based Editing

### Making Changes

Simply describe what you want to change:

**Layout Changes:**
- "Make the hero section taller"
- "Add more spacing between sections"
- "Center the content on the page"

**Content Updates:**
- "Change the headline to 'Revolutionary AI Platform'"
- "Update the pricing to $29/month"
- "Add a testimonials section"

**Styling Modifications:**
- "Change the color scheme to blue and white"
- "Make the buttons larger and more prominent"
- "Add a gradient background to the hero"

**Functional Changes:**
- "Add a contact form at the bottom"
- "Include a newsletter signup"
- "Add social media links"

### Understanding AI Responses

**Code Changes:**
When AI makes code changes, you'll see:
- `<tent-code>` blocks with specific modifications
- Clear explanations of what was changed
- Visual indicators in the chat history

**Conversational Responses:**
For questions or clarifications:
- Direct answers to your questions
- Suggestions for improvements
- Explanations of design decisions

## Preview Features

### Device Testing

Test your tent across different devices:

**Mobile Preview:**
- iPhone and Android screen sizes
- Touch interaction simulation
- Mobile-specific layout testing

**Tablet Preview:**
- iPad and Android tablet sizes
- Responsive breakpoint testing
- Touch and mouse interaction

**Desktop Preview:**
- Various screen resolutions
- Mouse hover effects
- Keyboard navigation

### Interactive Elements

**Form Testing:**
- Submit test data to forms
- Verify form validation
- Test submission handling

**Navigation Testing:**
- Click through all links
- Test smooth scrolling
- Verify anchor links

**Animation Testing:**
- Hover effects and transitions
- Loading animations
- Scroll-triggered animations

## Code View Features

### HTML Structure

**Semantic Elements:**
- Proper HTML5 semantic tags
- Accessibility attributes
- SEO-optimized structure

**Meta Tags:**
- Title and description
- Open Graph tags
- Viewport settings

### CSS Styling

**Modern CSS:**
- Flexbox and Grid layouts
- CSS custom properties
- Responsive design patterns

**Animations:**
- Smooth transitions
- Hover effects
- Scroll animations

### JavaScript Functionality

**Form Handling:**
- Client-side validation
- AJAX form submission
- Success/error messaging

**Interactive Features:**
- Smooth scrolling
- Mobile menu toggles
- Dynamic content updates

## Best Practices

### Effective Chat Commands

**Be Specific:**
- Instead of: "Make it look better"
- Try: "Increase the font size of the headline and add more padding around the hero section"

**One Change at a Time:**
- Focus on single modifications
- Avoid complex multi-part requests
- Build changes incrementally

**Use Visual References:**
- Upload images for style inspiration
- Reference specific sections by name
- Describe exact positioning or sizing

### Preview Testing

**Test Early and Often:**
- Check mobile responsiveness frequently
- Test all interactive elements
- Verify form functionality

**Cross-Device Testing:**
- Test on actual devices when possible
- Use browser developer tools
- Check different screen orientations

### Code Management

**When to Use Code View:**
- Fine-tuning specific styles
- Adding custom functionality
- Debugging layout issues
- Understanding the generated code

**Code Editing Tips:**
- Make small, incremental changes
- Test changes immediately
- Keep backups of working versions

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Preview Not Updating:**
- Refresh the preview panel
- Check for JavaScript errors
- Verify code syntax

**Changes Not Applied:**
- Ensure clear, specific instructions
- Check chat history for errors
- Try rephrasing your request

**Layout Problems:**
- Test on different screen sizes
- Check CSS for conflicts
- Use browser developer tools

<Card
  title="Next: Editing Tents"
  icon="arrow-right"
  href="/working-with-tents/editing-tents"
>
  Learn advanced techniques for editing and iterating on your tents.
</Card>

Commit message:

More edits and screenshots
 Edits and screenshots for more articles.

working-with-tents/understanding-tent-editor.mdx, after:

---
title: "Understanding the Tent Editor"
description: "Navigate and use the tent editor interface effectively"
---

## Tent Editor Overview

The tent editor is your workspace for creating, editing, and refining your AI-generated landing pages. It combines a chat interface for natural language editing with a live preview and code view.

  ![A screenshot of the tent editor with the chat interface on the left and a new tent preview on the right.](../images/initial-prompt-response.png)

## Interface Layout

### Left Panel: Chat Interface

The chat interface is your primary tool for generating tents:

**Input Area:**
- Text input for natural language commands
- Image upload for visual references
- File upload for downloadable assets like PDFs
- Send button to submit requests
- Generating indicator during AI processing

**Chat History:**
- All previous conversations and edits
- Timestamps for each interaction
- Ability to reference previous changes

### Right Panel: Live Preview

**Real-time Updates:**
- See changes instantly as you make them
- Responsive preview for mobile devices
- Interactive elements work in preview

### Code View (Optional)

1. Click the **code icon** to open code mode.
2. **Edit** the code directly.
3. The tent updates in real time.
4. Click the **code icon** again to return to Chat mode.

**Code Features:**
- Syntax highlighting
- Direct editing capabilities

  Learn more about the code view in the [Code View](#code-view-features) section.

  ![A screenshot of the code view with the code icon highlighted.](../images/code-mode.png)


## Chat-Based Editing

### Making Changes

Simply describe what you want to change:

**Layout Changes:**
- "Make the hero section taller"
- "Add more spacing between sections"
- "Center the content on the page"

**Content Updates:**
- "Change the headline to 'Revolutionary AI Platform'"
- "Update the pricing to $29/month"
- "Add a testimonials section"

**Styling Modifications:**
- "Change the color scheme to blue and white"
- "Make the buttons larger and more prominent"
- "Add a gradient background to the hero"

**Functional Changes:**
- "Add a contact form at the bottom"
- "Include a newsletter signup"
- "Add social media links"

### Understanding AI Responses

**Code Changes:**
When AI makes code changes, you'll see:
- `<tent-code>` blocks with specific modifications
- Clear explanations of what was changed
- Visual indicators in the chat history

**Conversational Responses:**
For questions or clarifications:
- Direct answers to your questions
- Suggestions for improvements
- Explanations of design decisions

## Preview Features

### Device Testing

Test your tent across different devices:

**Mobile Preview:**
- iPhone and Android screen sizes
- Touch interaction simulation
- Mobile-specific layout testing

**Tablet Preview:**
- iPad and Android tablet sizes
- Responsive breakpoint testing
- Ability to specify screen sizes
- Touch and mouse interaction

![A screenshot of the mobile preview with the **Mobile Preview icon** and device selector highlighted.](../images/preview-mobile.png)

**Desktop Preview:**
- Mouse hover effects
- Keyboard navigation
- Functional forms and buttons

### Interactive Elements

**Form Testing:**
- Submit test data to forms
- Verify form validation
- Test submission handling

**Navigation Testing:**
- Click through all links
- Test smooth scrolling
- Verify anchor links

**Animation Testing:**
- Hover effects and transitions
- Loading animations
- Scroll-triggered animations

## Code View Features

### HTML Structure

**Semantic Elements:**
- Proper HTML5 semantic tags
- Accessibility attributes
- SEO-optimized structure

**Meta Tags:**
- Title and description
- Open Graph tags
- Viewport settings

### CSS Styling

**Modern CSS:**
- Flexbox and Grid layouts
- CSS custom properties
- Responsive design patterns

**Animations:**
- Smooth transitions
- Hover effects
- Scroll animations

### JavaScript Functionality

**Form Handling:**
- Client-side validation
- AJAX form submission
- Success and error messaging

**Interactive Features:**
- Smooth scrolling
- Mobile menu toggles
- Dynamic content updates

## Best Practices

### Effective Chat Commands

**Be Specific:**
- Instead of: "Make it look better"
- Try: "Increase the font size of the headline and add more padding around the hero section"

**One Change at a Time:**
- Focus on single modifications
- Avoid complex multi-part requests
- Build changes incrementally

**Use Visual References:**
- Upload images for style inspiration
- Reference specific sections by name
- Describe exact positioning or sizing

### Preview Testing

**Test Early and Often:**
- Check mobile responsiveness frequently
- Test all interactive elements
- Verify form functionality

**Cross-Device Testing:**
- Test on actual devices when possible
- Use browser developer tools
- Check different screen orientations

### Code Management

**When to Use Code View:**
- Fine-tuning specific styles
- Adding custom functionality
- Debugging layout issues
- Understanding the generated code

**Code Editing Tips:**
- Make small, incremental changes
- Test changes immediately
- Keep backups of working versions

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Preview Not Updating:**
- Refresh the preview panel
- Check for JavaScript errors
- Verify code syntax

**Changes Not Applied:**
- Ensure clear, specific instructions
- Check chat history for errors
- Try rephrasing your request

**Layout Problems:**
- Test on different screen sizes
- Check CSS for conflicts
- Use browser developer tools

<Card
  title="Next: Editing Tents"
  icon="arrow-right"
  href="/working-with-tents/editing-tents"
>
  Learn advanced techniques for editing and iterating on your tents.
</Card>
